(EAI-233): Evaluation CLI docs expansion (#391)
mongodb/chatbot: docs/docs/evaluation/configuration-reference.md

# Configuration Reference

This page contains reference documentation for the configuration options for the MongoDB Chatbot Evaluation CLI.

> A Evaluation CLI config files is a CommonJS file that exports a `ConfigConstructor` function as its default export.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
An Evaluation CLI config file is a CommonJS file that exports a `ConfigConstructor` function as its default export.
```

For an example of setting up a configuration file, refer to the [Configuration](./index.md) documentation.

To set up a configuration file, you must first install the following packages:

```bash
npm install mongodb-chatbot-evaluation

> ```

Reviewer: Should we link out like on the other reference page? e.g. " You need to have the Evaluation CLI installed to configure it. See the installation docs."?

## API Reference

For a full API reference of all modules exported by `mongodb-chatbot-evaluation`, refer to the [API Reference](../reference/evaluation/) documentation.

This page links to the key reference documentation for configuring the Ingest CLI.

## `ConfigConstructor`

The [`ConfigConstructor`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#configconstructor) function is the root configuration type for the Ingest CLI. This exports an [`EvalConfig`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/EvalConfig.md) object.

## Data Stores

### `CommandMetadataStore`

> The [`CommandMetadataStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/CommandMetadataStore.md) is an interface to interact with MongoDB collection that tracks metadata of each command run.

Reviewer: Can we split this into two concepts?

- `CommandMetadataStore` is an interface for storing metadata every time a command is run
- We provide a constructor that implements `CommandMetadataStore` to store command metadata in MongoDB Atlas.

Same for the other stores

Author: updated

> To create an `CommandMetadataStore`, use the function [`makeMongoDbCommandMetadataStore()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#makemongodbcommandmetadatastore).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a `CommandMetadataStore`, use the function [`makeMongoDbCommandMetadataStore()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#makemongodbcommandmetadatastore).
```

```ts
import { makeMongoDbCommandMetadataStore } from "mongodb-chatbot-evaluation";

const commandMetadataStore = makeMongoDbCommandMetadataStore({
  connectionUri: MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI,
  databaseName: MONGODB_DATABASE_NAME,
});
```

### `GeneratedDataStore`

The [`GeneratedDataStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/GeneratedDataStore.md) is an interface to interact with MongoDB collection that stores generated data.

> To create an `GeneratedDataStore`, use the function [`makeMongoDbGeneratedDataStore()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#makemongodbgenerateddatastore).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a `GeneratedDataStore`, use the function [`makeMongoDbGeneratedDataStore()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#makemongodbgenerateddatastore).
```

```ts
import { makeMongoDbGeneratedDataStore } from "mongodb-chatbot-evaluation";

const generatedDataStore = makeMongoDbGeneratedDataStore({
  connectionUri: MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI,
  databaseName: MONGODB_DATABASE_NAME,
});
```

### `EvaluationStore`

The [`EvaluationStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/EvaluationStore.md) is an interface to interact with MongoDB collection that stores evaluation data.

To create an `EvaluationStore`, use the function [`makeMongoDbEvaluationStore()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#makemongodbevaluationstore).

```ts
import { makeMongoDbEvaluationStore } from "mongodb-chatbot-evaluation";

const evaluationStore = makeMongoDbEvaluationStore({
  connectionUri: MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI,
  databaseName: MONGODB_DATABASE_NAME,
});
```

### `ReportStore`

The [`ReportStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/ReportStore.md) is an interface to interact with MongoDB collection that stores reports.

> To create an `ReportStore`, use the function [`makeMongoDbReportStore()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#makemongodbreportstore).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To create a `ReportStore`, use the function [`makeMongoDbReportStore()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#makemongodbreportstore).
```

```ts
import { makeMongoDbReportStore } from "mongodb-chatbot-evaluation";

const reportStore = makeMongoDbReportStore({
  connectionUri: MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI,
  databaseName: MONGODB_DATABASE_NAME,
});
```

## Test Cases

> You must provide test cases to evaluate the chatbot. Pass the test cases to the `commands.generate` property in the `EvalConfig`.

Reviewer: ````suggestion
You must provide test cases to evaluate the chatbot. Pass the test cases to the `commands.generate` property in the `EvalConfig`.

```typescript
const testCases: ConversationTestCase[] = [
  {
    name: `It understands "why the chicken crossed the road" jokes`,
    expectation: `
      The ASSISTANT responds with a completion of the classic chicken crossing the road joke.
      The joke should be completed in a way that is both humorous and appropriate.
    `,
    tags: ["joke"],
    messages: [
      { role: "user", content: "Why did the chicken cross the road?" }
    ]
  },
];

const evalConfig: EvalConfig = {
  // ... other fields,
  commands: {
    generate: {
      myTest: {
        type: "conversation",
        testCases: testCases,
        generator: makeGenerateConversationData({ ... }),
      },
    },
    evaluate: { /* ... */ },
    report: { /* ... */ },
  },
};
```
````

I think this benefits from an up front example of what they look like / where they're defined.

The `mongodb-chatbot-evaluation` package includes built-in support for the [`ConversationTestCase`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/ConversationTestCase.md) type.
You can use this to evaluate the chatbot's performance on conversation data.

> You can load `ConversationTestCase` object from a YAML file using the [`getConversationsTestCasesFromYaml()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#getconversationstestcasesfromyaml) function.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
### Load test cases from a file
You can load `ConversationTestCase` object from a YAML file using the [`getConversationsTestCasesFromYaml()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#getconversationstestcasesfromyaml) function.
```

# Configuration Reference

This page contains reference documentation for the configuration options for the MongoDB Chatbot Evaluation CLI.

An Evaluation CLI config file is a CommonJS file that exports a `ConfigConstructor` function as its default export.

For an example of setting up a configuration file, refer to the [Configuration](./index.md) documentation.

You need to install the Evaluation CLI to configure it. Refer to the [Installation](./index.md#install) documentation for instructions.

## API Reference

For a full API reference of all modules exported by `mongodb-chatbot-evaluation`, refer to the [API Reference](../reference/evaluation/) documentation.

This page links to the key reference documentation for configuring the Ingest CLI.

## `ConfigConstructor`

The [`ConfigConstructor`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#configconstructor) function is the root configuration type for the Ingest CLI. This exports an [`EvalConfig`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/EvalConfig.md) object.

## Data Stores

### `CommandMetadataStore`

> The [`CommandMetadataStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/CommandMetadataStore.md) is an interface to interact with MongoDB collection that tracks metadata of each command run.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`CommandMetadataStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/CommandMetadataStore.md) is an interface for storing metadata of each command run.
```

You could also do a flat file metadata store (or use another DB for w/e reason)

#### `MongoDBCommandMetadataStore`

To create a `CommandMetadataStore` that stores data in MongoDB,
use the constructor function [`makeMongoDbCommandMetadataStore()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#makemongodbcommandmetadatastore).

```ts
import { makeMongoDbCommandMetadataStore } from "mongodb-chatbot-evaluation";

const commandMetadataStore = makeMongoDbCommandMetadataStore({
  connectionUri: MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI,
  databaseName: MONGODB_DATABASE_NAME,
});
```

### `GeneratedDataStore`

> The [`GeneratedDataStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/GeneratedDataStore.md) is an interface to interact with MongoDB collection that stores generated data.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`GeneratedDataStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/GeneratedDataStore.md) is an interface for storing and working with generated evaluation data.
```

#### `MongoDBGeneratedDataStore`

To create a `GeneratedDataStore` that stores data in MongoDB,
use the constructor function [`makeMongoDbGeneratedDataStore()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#makemongodbgenerateddatastore).

```ts
import { makeMongoDbGeneratedDataStore } from "mongodb-chatbot-evaluation";

const generatedDataStore = makeMongoDbGeneratedDataStore({
  connectionUri: MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI,
  databaseName: MONGODB_DATABASE_NAME,
});
```

### `EvaluationStore`

The [`EvaluationStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/EvaluationStore.md) is an interface to interact with MongoDB collection that stores evaluation data.

#### `MongoDBEvaluationStore`

To create an `EvaluationStore` that stores data in MongoDB,
use the constructor function [`makeMongoDbEvaluationStore()`](../reference/evaluation/modules.md#makemongodbevaluationstore).

```ts
import { makeMongoDbEvaluationStore } from "mongodb-chatbot-evaluation";

const evaluationStore = makeMongoDbEvaluationStore({
  connectionUri: MONGODB_CONNECTION_URI,
  databaseName: MONGODB_DATABASE_NAME,
});
```

### `ReportStore`

> The [`ReportStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/ReportStore.md) is an interface to interact with MongoDB collection that stores reports.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The [`ReportStore`](../reference/evaluation/interfaces/ReportStore.md) is an interface for storing reports on the results of evaluation runs.
```
